# UDP Application Description

At regular intervals of 5 seconds, the FTD leader sends a broadcast UDP packet to all<br /> thread devices on the network. This includes FTDs, MTDs, and SEDs, which will receive<br /> the broadcast data and respond with a unicast packet to the leader.

For the network to function properly, it is necessary to have a designated thread leader<br /> that all other nodes can connect to. In the UDP demo application, a maximum of four<br /> nodes can be connected to an FTD device. If an FTD device is not configured as a leader,<br /> it will automatically become a router after approximately two minutes.

The FTD’s and MTD’s will receive the UDP broadcast data immediately as their receivers<br /> are in RX mode even when idle.

During idle periods, the receivers of the SED are turned off and they enter a deep sleep<br /> mode for a pre-configured duration of 5 seconds, as shown in the example application.<br /> Every 5 seconds, the SED will wake up and check for any pending data packets in the<br /> leader. If any data is received, the SED will send a unicast UDP packet back to the<br /> leader for each data packet received.

**LED indications**

The RGB Green LED will flash to indicate the transmission of a packet on all devices.<br /> Similarly, the blue user LED will blink to indicate the receipt of a packet.

-   **[Application Configuration](GUID-4C77E6EE-92BE-4B14-BF2B-D92DD925D430.md)**  

-   **[Application Flow](GUID-2DA4B34D-175F-41FB-BDD9-7E89E7470D2C.md)**  


**Parent topic:**[Thread UDP Demo Application](GUID-B9324B07-E12F-4AC3-B913-1E4A7C5C0E9E.md)

